Locations of interest
Paradox Space- This is the name of the dimension that is ruled by the game. It is marked by its bespoke cosmic cycle of world-destroying universe-creating games and its self consistant expectations for time travel. It is powered by the forces of narration.

The Furthest Ring- an infinite expanse of darkness between game sessions. Unknowable horrors lurk in these depths, as well as those who may try to navigate its twisted timespace bullshit. 

Features of considerable note here:
Dreambubbles-
To those who pledge their souls to the horrorterrors, the dreambubbles can be found in sleep and in death. It is said that the dreambubbles are but holding places for ghosts who are not ready to move on to whatever may be next, or are destined for something that may require them to be present. To those that may enter in sleep or by physical means, dreambubbles can very much be a great imaginary playground.

Excerpt from the Dreambubble Protocol in 1.5 Lost Pawns:

Out in the furthest ring, the party will occasionally encounter dreambubbles. These are where dreams take place when there is no dreamself remaining to switch to, and where the souls of the dead spend their afterlife, at least for those who played the game. It's ambiguous whether or not non-players get sent there or not. These bubbles are blown by the horrorterrors which reside within the void. Those who are just visiting as dreamers can reportedly sometimes act irrational unless regaining lucidity. Dream logic is a big thing here.
Items can be conjured, appearences can be changed instantly, and even backdrops and settings are malleable, to a degree. Do note that it takes quite a bit of concentration to do the heavy kinda stuff, and most non-lucid dreamers probably will be in auto-pilot most of the time. Also note that a lot of times, crud from the visitors' subconsciouses can and will surface from time to time. Much of the content from within dreambubbles is most easily based off of memories and lingering thoughts.
An important thing to note is that dreamers cannot leave a dreambubble without excessive force, and if they do leave, they will fizzle away and the dreamer will wake up. If a ghost attempts to leave, they'll have similar boundaries, but will not wake up after fizzling away, considering they're dead. Any conjured objects will fizzle outside of the boundaries, but if they are captchalogued, a ghost image of the item will be saved, which can later be alchemized if there is enough grist to do so. Do note that the properties of the real version of an imagined item will often not be exactly the same, due to differences in physics rules between realms.
It is also possible for a person to physically enter a dreambubble, though one must be very careful. If someone who is awake dies in a dreambubble, they will actually die and be trapped in that dreambubble for as long as they are dead. Do note that The godtier clock system is still a thing, but there is a delay between revival. This delay time can vary, but on average it takes a minute to kick in. In the meantime, ghost shenanigans are possible, but they will be snapped back to their body upon revival.

The main dreambubble within common reach is the "Underworld" dreambubble, accessible via the elevator found in Gene's Garden

Voidco-
An energy company based in the furthest ring which employs countless monsters that call this dark place home. They may appear to be in a sympathetic position, but their business model is almost entirely parasitic, relying upon the life energy of anyone they can get their hands on, to unsustainable ends. Refer to "What is a voidco dungeon" for details of this aspect of their business.

Outposts-
Remember the troll meteor in homestuck? turns out they weren't the only ones who got an idea to launch big things to live on for years on end for intersession travel. There's a surprisingly large amount of players from failed sessions out here, though you'd have to be lucky to even contact one of them. Some have no particular destination, instead just drifting through the void. Currently no known outposts (that are still intact) have been visited by the dungeon crashers. some members of the lost pawns are now apart of the dungeon crashers, but their meteor home was destroyed in a climactic final boss battle combo.



